# Docker Compose

Docker Compose is a tool provided by Docker that simplifies the process of ```defining, managing, and orchestrating multi-container Docker applications```. 
It allows developers to define a multi-container Docker application using a simple YAML file called docker-compose.yml

With Docker Compose, you can ```define the services, networks, and volumes``` required for your application in a declarative way.
This means you specify what you want your application to consist of and how different containers should interact, without needing to worry about the complexity of container management

## Understanding the strucutre of docker compose file
```bash
version: '3'  # Specify the Docker Compose file format version

services:  # Define the services that make up your application
  service1:  # Service 1 definition
    image: # Docker image to use for this service
    ports: # Ports to expose
    volumes: # Volumes to mount
    environment: # Environment variables
    depends_on: # Services this service depends on
    # Other configuration options for this service
  
  service2:  # Service 2 definition
    image: 
    ports: 
    volumes: 
    environment: 
    depends_on: 
    # Other configuration options for this service

networks:  # Define custom networks if needed
  network1:  # Network 1 definition
    # Network configuration options
  
volumes:  # Define named volumes if needed
  volume1:  # Volume 1 definition
    # Volume configuration options
```
## Understanding the components of the docker compose.
```version```: Specifies the version of Docker compose file format being used.
This determines which features and syntax are available.

```services``` : Each service is a containerized component of your application, such as a web server, database,
or any other application component.
Inside each service definition, you can specify various configuration options, such as 
- The Docker image to use (image)
- ports to expose (ports)
- volumes to mount (volumes)
-  environment variables (environment).
  
dependencies on other services (depends_on), and other options specific to the service.

```networks```: This section allows you to define custom networks for your application. By default, Docker Compose creates a default network for your services, 
but you can define custom networks with specific configurations if needed.

```volumes```: Here, you can define named volumes for your application. 
Volumes are used to persist data generated by your containers or to share data between containers.



