# Docker volumes.
- what are docker volumes and benefits.
- Create a docker volume.
- List the docker docker volumes.
- Inspecting the properties of docker volume
- Mounting the docker container to new created volume.

## Docker volumes.
Docker volumes provide a way to persist data generated by and used by Docker containers. They are a crucial feature for managing data in Dockerized application.
- ```Data Persistence```: Docker containers are ephemeral by nature, meaning any data written inside a container is typically lost when the container is stopped or removed. Volumes allow you to persist data generated by containers, such as databases, logs, or configuration files, beyond the lifetime of the container.
- ```Sharing Data Between Containers```: Volumes provide a mechanism for sharing data between multiple containers. Multiple containers can mount the same volume, allowing them to read from and write to the shared data. This is useful for scenarios such as microservices architectures where different containers need access to common data.
- ```Database Storage```: In the case of databases running inside Docker containers, using volumes is essential for storing persistent data.
- ```Performance Optimization```: Docker volumes can be used to optimize performance by separating data storage from the container's writable layer. This is particularly useful for applications that generate a large amount of data or require high I/O performance.
- ```Configuration Management```: Volumes can be used to store configuration files that need to be accessed by multiple containers.


## Create a docker volume 
```bash
$ docker volume create my-vol
```

## Listing the available volumes
```bash
docker volume ls
local               my-vol
```


## Inspect a volume
```bash
$ docker volume inspect my-vol
[
    {
        "Driver": "local",
        "Labels": {},
        "Mountpoint": "/var/lib/docker/volumes/my-vol/_data",
        "Name": "my-vol",
        "Options": {},
        "Scope": "local"
    }
```

## Mounting a volume to conatiner
```bash
docker run -d \
  --name devtest \
  --mount source=myvol2,target=/app \
  nginx:latest
  
  --->>------
  "using -v option"
  $ docker run -d \
  --name devtest \
  -v myvol2:/app \
  nginx:latest
```

Note:- we can mount different container to same volume storage

## To remove the storage
But make sure no container is using the storage.

```bash
docker volume rm shared_storage
```
